hey how's it going this is Marty from
Shamrock mopeds and I wanted to talk a
little bit about moto B Cannes and
decompress serious and very aters and
stuff so here we go okay for starters
I'll give you a little bit of insight on
what I'm working on basically my my moto
became just kind of died on me when I
was riding one day and had a lot of
trouble getting it started and stuff and
it's kind of confusing cuz right around
the time that died was the same time I
put a new CDI unit on it so I thought
you know maybe it was a dead cert and it
was something to do with the CDI but I
had good spark set the timing a bunch of
bunch of times and still no luck but so
I ended up carrying everything in apart
and here's kind of what I found out but
I thought it'd be a good time to talk a
little bit on how the compressors work
and stuff like that so for starters I'll
just kind of show you how the D
compressor on a moto B cane works and
that kind of works into what was wrong
with my machine so to start out we've
got our D compressor right here up on
the top of the engine and when you pull
the lever on your handlebars it pushes
this down and so we flip the head over
you can see kind of what that does it
pushes in it's kind of hard to do with
one hand but so it pushes that guy in I
don't know if you can see that and so it
it opens up a whole going from here to
here and then that connects to this one
down here comes out the exhaust port so
when the when the piston is coming up
it's it's unable to commit just pushes
everything right out that hole and
allows the engine to start spinning
faster which is key for engaging the
clutch it's basically when you this is
the clutch slash variator and as you
pedal the machine the belt begins to
spin this
and it pulls these arms out they make
contact with this guy which drives the
crankshaft of the engine so by having no
compression in the cylinder it's it's
much much easier to get it started so
got that but so basically here was this
is what was wrong with mine
usually so basically I didn't have any
compression and usually that's you know
bad piston rings cracked head correct
jug bad gaskets the heads not torqued
down enough a bunch of different reasons
but probably the most common would be
the gasket and so I didn't see and
usually one thing nice about two strokes
is it's nice and oily and you'll see
when there's a leak usually or you'll be
able to hear it or something I didn't
see any of that but here is what was
actually wrong with mine if you can see
my head gasket here it's broken right
here so if I lay this on top of here you
can see that made a little channel from
the cylinder to the to the decompressor
hole so it was kind of like my
decompressor was on a little bit all the
time so that's the problem I'm actually
going to just ditch this and try running
it without a gasket and see how that
goes it'll raise the compression a
little bit because we're we're narrowing
the gap but should work just fine if not
I'll I'll make a gasket out of a pop-can
or something like that but yeah that's
that